---
title: Calling Python methods
---

### Create Python Worker object

Create a new object variable and inherit from the Python Worker, grouped under the OW3 Worker Objects. For more control, you might prefer to create a new object class in your library and inherit from the Python worker through the `$superclass` property.

### Initialise and start the worker

Once you have an object or an object reference to the Python Worker, you need initialise and then start the worker:

```omnis
Do pyWorker.$init(,'/path/to/python3')
Do pyWorker.$start() Return #F
```

A new thread will be launched upon calling `$start` where the Python process will wait until we give it methods to execute. Furthermore, you only need to call `$start` as you can make multiple method calls to the same worker.

The first parameter to `$init` takes overrides the search path, which is usually best to leave to default. The second parameter however is very useful: you can use it to specify the exact Python executable you wish to use. Please note whichever Python executable you try to use, it will need to have the packages from the requirements file installed, otherwise it will fail to start.

If the second parameter to `$init` is omitted, we default to `/usr/bin/python3` on Linux and macOS. On Windows, we attempt to load the `python3.dll` which works if it's available in the **PATH**, then try loading the **python3.exe** in the same directory as the **python3.dll**.

To avoid failures when starting the Python Worker, we advise you point the Worker to your **python3** executable through the second parameter to `$init`.

### Call a method

If your Python worker has started successfully, we can use `$callmethod(cModule, cMethod)` where **cModule** is the name of the module we wish to use and **cMethod** is the name of the method inside our module we want to execute:

```omnis
Do pyWorker.$callmethod('omnis_test', 'test') Return #F
```

### Passing parameters

Parameters passed to the Python worker are in the form of a [list](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/Programming/02libsandclasses.html#list) or [row](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/Programming/02libsandclasses.html#row).

You can pass the list or row in the `$callmethod`:

```omnis
Do lRow.$cols.$add('message',kCharacter,kSimplechar)
Do lRow.$assigncols('hello world')
Do pyWorker.$callmethod("omnis_test","test",lRow) Returns #F
```

In order to access parameters on the Python module side, use the `param` parameter of your method:

```py
from omnis_calls import sendResponse, sendError

def test(param):
    return sendResponse(param['value'])
```

Please note Omnis rows will create a Python dictionary `param` and Omnis lists will create a Python list `param`.

### Method results

When the Python Worker returns, the `$methodreturn` callback is called with a [row](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/Programming/02libsandclasses.html#row) parameter.

Inside the row parameter, you can find the returned data from your method as well as any tags supplied to `$callmethod`.

For example, calling the **test** method in the **omnis_test** module will result in Unicode characters to be returned inside the **unicode** column in the first row parameter of `$methodreturn`.

### Cancel call

If you have called a Python method but wish to cancel it, use the `$cancel` method on the Python worker:

```omnis
Do pyWorker.$cancel()
```

Cancelling a call might be useful if you think it has been running for too long and wish to stop it.

### Waiting on a call

The `$callmethod` is asynchronous by default, but there might be times where you wish to block the main thread until the Python Worker finishes its job, in which case you can pass `kTrue` to the **bWait** parameter of `$callmethod` (4th parameter):

```omnis
Do pyWorker.$callmethod('omnis_test','test',,kTrue) Returns #F
```

When **bWait** is true, the Python Worker will block the main thread until it returns.

### Tagging method calls

The same Python Worker instance can be used for multiple method calls since Python methods can be made asynchronous, as such it may come in useful the ability of tagging each call with an identifiable number.

The 6th parameter of `$callmethod` can accept a tag which will be returned in the `$methodreturn`:

```omnis
Do pyWorker.$callmethod('omnis_test','test',,,,lTagID) Returns #F
```

A **\_\_tag** column is added to the row parameter of `$methodreturn` if a tag was given to `$callmethod`, allowing you to identify the results.