---
title: Error handling
---

### Method errors

If your JavaScript method contains throws errors when executing, the `$methoderror` callback is called with a [row](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/Programming/02libsandclasses.html#row) parameter which contains two columns:

**errorCode** column contains the error code of the error.

**errorInfo** column contains information about the error.

You can use the **errorCode** and **errorInfo** columns to debug your JavaScript method.

### Worker errors

If the JavaScript worker has failed to start, the `$workererror` callback is called with a [row](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/Programming/02libsandclasses.html#row) parameter which contains two columns:

**errorCode** column contains the error code of the error.

**errorInfo** column contains information about the error.

These errors are unlikely to be caused by the method called, but more likely issues with Node.js itself e.g. a crash.

## Registering callbacks

If you inherited your JavaScript worker, you can simply override callbacks in your new object.

Otherwise, if you created a new variable with the object type of OW3 JavaScript worker, you will need to register the instance that will receive the callbacks such as `$methoderror`, `$workererror` and `$methodreturn`.

You can do so by assigning the instance to the `$callbackinst` property, for example:

```omnis
Do jsWorker.$callbackinst.$assign($cinst)
```

Will assign the callback instance to `$cinst` (current instance). If `$cinst` is a window, then that window class must implement the methods `$methoderror`, `$workererror` and `$methodreturn`.

## Methods and properties

To view all methods and properties of the OW3 JavaScript Worker, please consult the online documentation available [here](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/ExtendingOmnis/07webcomms.html#javascript-worker-object).
