---
title: .run switches
---

Below is a list of switches that you can use with the **.run** installer script.

If you are not familiar with some options, please consult our [online documentation](https://omnis.net/developers/resources/onlinedocs/index.jsp).

`unattended` does not take a value. **Required** in order to start unattended installation.

`serial` takes serial number which must not contain any spaces. **Required** in order to have a successful installation (Omnis will not start unless serialised).

`stacks` takes the number of stacks you wish to set. If not passed, will use a default value.

`timeslice` takes the number of timeslice you wish to set. If not passed, will use a default value.

`port` takes the port number to set as the server port. If not passed, will use a default value.

`install-dependencies` does not take a value. If passed, will attempt to install dependencies needed to run Omnis on your system.

`ws-url` takes the web service URL. If not passed, will use a default value.

`ws-connection` takes the web service connection. If not passed, will use a default value.

`ws-logging` takes the web service logging value (off, faults or full). If not passed, will use a default value.

`ws-maxlog` takes the maximum number of web service log records. If not passed, will use a default value.

`ws-strict-wsdl-off` does not take a value. If passed, will disable strict WSDL for the web service.

`rest-url` takes the URL to use for RESTful services. If not passed, will use a default value.

`rest-connection` takes the connection to use for RESTful services. If not passed, will use a default value.

`destination-dir` takes the **absolute** path to use as destination for the installation. If not passed, will use a default value.

`service` takes the name of the service to create. Must be running as root user to install a service.

`owner` takes the name of the user that should own the installation directory and Omnis tree directory. Please note this will take effect **only** when running the installer as the root user.

### Example

`./omnis.run unattended install-dependencies stacks 5 timeslice 20 port 42069 serial WBRN10XX005W000...`